[WIP] Add Optimizer (query and job recommendations) documentation (#37961)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/data_observability/optimizer.md

---

> title: Optimizer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Optimize
```

description: Get recommendations to reduce the cost and improve the performance of Spark and Databricks jobs, and Snowflake, BigQuery, and Trino queries.
further_reading:
  - link: '/data_observability/'
    tag: 'Documentation'
    text: 'Data Observability Overview'
  - link: '/data_observability/jobs_monitoring/'
    tag: 'Documentation'
    text: 'Jobs Monitoring'
---

> <div class="alert alert-info">Optimizer is in preview. Contact your Datadog representative or <a href="/help/">support</a> to request access.</div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-info">Optimization recommendations are in preview. Contact your Datadog representative or <a href="/help/">support</a> to request access.</div>
```

## Overview

> Optimizer analyzes your Spark and Databricks jobs, and your Snowflake, BigQuery, and Trino queries, to surface specific recommendations for reducing cost and improving performance — for example, right-sizing cluster configuration or rewriting an inefficient query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data Observability analyzes your Spark and Databricks jobs, and your Snowflake, BigQuery, and Trino queries, to surface specific recommendations for reducing cost and improving performance — for example, right-sizing cluster configuration or rewriting an inefficient query.
```
